
### **Magic-Users**

#### **Adept: (20 Karma)**

In the small segment of the world that has Awakened to magic power, there is an even smaller segment who are able to channel the mana into themselves, giving them enhanced physical abilities that make them more than meta-human. They are the physical adepts – or, for those who like fewer words, just adepts – and they are known for their very disciplined self-improvement. They include athletes, martial artists, religious acolyte, exercise gurus and others who seek to combine mind and body. Adepts are concerned with the harmony of body and mind and the strengthening of both and they focus their magical power towards those ends.

In the early days of the Sixth World, when the world saw the rise of people who could use magic to increase their own physical and mental potential, adepts didn’t face the same prejudice as magicians and shamans. Instead, they found themselves facing a mythos generated by corporate trids extolling their magical athleticism. This put adepts up on a pedestal – people either wanted to try to fight them to gain rep or to worship them, thinking that perhaps that would be the path to getting some abilities for themselves.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

They gain power points equal to their Magic attribute at character creation. You then spend the Power Points on buying adept powers. The maximum number of levels you can have of any one power is equal to your Magic Rating or up to the limit listed by the power, whichever is less.

Adepts cannot learn skills from the Conjuring, Enchanting or Sorcery skill groups.

Adepts can only astrally perceive if they take the Astral Perception power. Adepts can learn the Assensing skill only if they have the Astral Perception power.

Adepts cannot astrally project.

#### **Aware: (10 Karma)**

The Aware have **astral perception** as their lone magical ability, a truly minor ability that nonetheless sets them higher than the truly mundane. The aware have been known for ages as readers of auras, palms or other forms of psychometry but simply being able to see magical activity is power enough to serve them as researchers, observing the magic used by others and taking note. The largest place for them, by far, is in the world of security, serving in personal security details to ensure no magic is used to influence negotiations, to keep an eye out for spiritual intrusion or to direct security details against enchanted intruders. Several have found a place as musicians as well, as being able to read the emotional state of a crowd and adjusting their performance to it is a significant asset.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

The Aware cannot use skills from the Conjuring, Enchanting or Sorcery skill groups.

The Aware can astrally perceive. The Aware can learn the Assensing skill.

The Aware cannot astrally project.

#### **Conjurer: (20 Karma)**

The character is a magic-user, skilled in Conjuration.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

At character creation, Conjurers know summonings equal to their Magic Rating x2.

They may learn the Banishing, Binding and Summoning skills and the Conjuring skill group.

Conjurers cannot use skills from the Enchanting or Sorcery skill groups.

Conjurers can astrally perceive and learn the Assensing skill.

Conjurers cannot astrally project.

#### **Enchanter: (20 Karma)**

` `The character is a magic-user, skilled in Enchanting.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

At character creation, Enchanters know a total number of alchemical preparations and foci formula equal to their Magic Rating x2.

They may learn the Alchemy, Artificing and Disenchanting skills and the Enchanting skill group.

Enchanters cannot use skills from the Conjuring or Sorcery skill groups.

Enchanters can astrally perceive and learn the Assensing skill.

Enchanters cannot astrally project.

#### **Sorcerer: (20 Karma)**

The character is a magic-user, skilled in Sorcery.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

At character creation, Sorcerers know a total number of spells and rituals equal to their Magic Rating x2.

They may learn the Counterspelling, Ritual Spellcasting and Spellcasting skills and the Sorcery skill group.

Sorcerers cannot use skills from the Conjuring or Enchanting skill groups.

Sorcerers can astrally perceive and learn the Assensing skill.

Sorcerers cannot astrally project.

#### **Magician: (40 Karma)**

The character is a magic-user, able to cast spells, conjure spirits and use other magical abilities.

They have a Magic attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.

At character creation, Magicians know a total number of summonings, alchemical preparations, spells and rituals equal to their Magic Rating x2.

They may learn the Conjuring, Enchanting and Sorcery skill groups and all the skills therein.

Magicians can astrally perceive and learn the Assensing skill.

Magicians can astrally project.

### **Resonance**

#### **Technomancer: (15 Karma)**

The character is a technomancer with a Resonance attribute of 1 and can buy more ranks with Karma.