# QUALITIES

Qualities help round out your character’s personality while also providing a range of benefits or penalties.

There are two types of Qualities:

- **Positive Qualities** cost Karma but provide gameplay bonuses.
  - Players can spend a **maximum of 25 Karma** on Positive Qualities.
- **Negative Qualities** give bonus Karma but impose gameplaypenalties
  - Players can gain a **maximum of 25 Karma** from Negative Qualities.

>***Note:** After character creation, some Positive Qualities can be purchased during game play, while Negative Qualities may be awarded to the character by the gamesmaster based on events that take place in game.*

## **Positive Qualities**

**Agile Defender (Cost 3 Karma)**: Speed kills, but quickness and agility can be the key to avoiding a speedy death. The character can use their Agility attribute instead of their Willpower attribute while using Full Defence.

**Animal Empathy (Cost 3 Karma)**: Characters with this quality have a natural knack for working with animals. The character gets a +2 dice pool bonus for all tests involving the influence or control of an animal (including riding), including Awakened species.

**Ambidextrous (Cost 4 Karma)**: The Ambidextrous character can handle object equally well with either hand. Without this quality, any action performed solely with the off-hand (e.g. firing a gun) suffers a -2 dice pool penalty.

**Aptitude (Cost 14 Karma)**: This is how you become even better than the best in the world. Every so often, there is a character who can exceed limitations and be truly exceptional in a particular skill. With this particular quality, the character can have one skill rated at 7 at character creation and may eventually build that skill up to rating 13.

**Astral Chameleon (Cost 10 Karma)**: With the Astral Chameleon quality, the character’s astral signature blends into the background of astral space and is difficult to detect. All signatures left by the character last only half as long as other astral signatures. Any individuals assensing astral signatures left behind by a character with this quality receive a -2 dice pool penalty for the Assensing Test. Only characters with a Magic rating and capable of leaving astral signatures may have this quality.

**Bilingual (Cost 5 Karma)**: A character with this quality reads, writes and speaks a second language fluently. They can list a second language as a native tongue. This quality can only be acquired at character creation; selecting it gives the character a second free language skill during character creation.

**Biocompatibility (Cost 5 Karma)**: Something about the character’s body is exceptionally accepting of either bioware or cyberware implants (choose one). Not only are the implants not rejected, but they seamlessly fit within the body, having less impact on its holistic integrity. In game terms, the Essence cost of implants of the particular chosen type are reduced by ten percent. This reduction is cumulative with the reduction offered by the chosen ‘ware’s grade, if any. This quality can only be chosen for bioware or cyberware. This quality may only be taken once.

**Blandness (Cost 8 Karma)**: This character blends into a crowd; they’re seldom noticed and easily forgotten. They are unremarkable in every aspect of physical appearance. Anyone attempting to describe the character cannot come up with anything more precise that “average height, average build, average hair, etc.” Increase the threshold for anyone to recall specific details about the character by 1. Individuals attempting to shadow or physically locate a character with Blandness quality in a populated setting receive a -2 dice pool penalty on all tests related to the search. The same penalty applies if they’re asking around about the person based on the individual’s physical appearance. The modifier does not, however, apply to magical or Matrix searches. This quality decreases Notoriety by 1.

**Catlike (Cost 7 Karma)**: A character with this quality is gifted with an uncanny elegance, a stealthy gait, and an almost preternatural ability to move without making a sound. They also claim they land on their feet when dropped, though they tend not to let people test this. Add a +2 dice pool bonus to Sneaking skill tests.

**Codeslinger (Cost 10 Karma)**: Ones and zeroes are practically a native language to a Codeslinger. The character is adept at performing a particular Matrix action (which is selected when selecting this quality) and receives a +2 dice pool bonus to that Matrix action. This can only be selected for Matrix Actions that have a test associated with them.

**College Education (Cost 4 Karma)**: The halls of academe are well known to your character. Thanks to time spent actually studying while at college instead of partying, the character can buy Academic Knowledge skills at half price (rounded up) during character creation. After character creation, Academic Knowledge skill ranks of 3 or higher receive a 1 Karma cost reduction for each rank.

**Cyber Singularity Seeker (Cost 12 Karma)**: In the Sixth World, many accept cyberware as a means to an end, as a way to augment their capacity. For most it is a trade-off between their sense of self and being more capable. For you, though, cyberware *is* the end. You believe that the more chrome you get, the closer you get to some sort of point of nirvana, of hitting a singularity where you blend man and machine to perfection.

The character gains +1 Willpower for every two full cyberlimb replacements they get (partial limb replacements don’t count), up to a maximum of +2 Willpower.

**Cynic (Cost 6 Karma)**: How many times does Mr Johnson have to screw you over before you just assume he’s lying to you? What about anyone else? You’ve been stabbed in the back so many times you’ve got little mirrors in your sunglasses to see them coming. You might be a downer, but no one gets the drop on you. How could they? You were expecting their sudden, inevitable betrayal all along. Anyone attempting a Social Test against you has a -1 dice pool penalty.

**Daredevil (Cost 6 Karma)**: Better to be lucky than good, when you’re living on the edge. A character with this quality is particularly lucky when it comes to doing the outrageous. Whenever the character performs an exceptionally daring action, they get two points of Edge back instead of one.

**Deep Resonance Connection (Cost 10 Karma)**: Technomancer only. Having known your abilities for longer than just about anyone else alive, dealing with these strange powers is second nature to you. You gain a +2 dice pool bonus when resisting Fading from any source.

**Drug Tolerant (Cost 6 Karma)**: The character has a higher-than-average tolerance for drugs (sometimes called Ozzy Osborne Syndrome). This could be due to a hardy constitution or a natural genetic mutation that allows for better absorption and filtering of foreign chemicals from their system. The character in question receives a +2 dice pool bonus to all Addiction Tests to resist addiction. They gain no bonus, however, for attempting to dry out after being addicted.

**Empathic Listener (Cost 10 Karma)**: Charming people always seem to know what to say. You might not be well-spoken, but you weren’t born yesterday either. A gut feeling, some honest empathy – you’ve got a little insight to make up for lack of social graces. If might not be pretty, but you can win people over by playing to exactly what they want to hear. Substitute Intuition for Charisma on Etiquette tests.

**Exceptional Attribute (Cost 14 Karma)**: The Exceptional Attribute quality is how you get to be a charismatic troll or the agile dwarf. It allows you to possess one attribute at a level one point above the metatype maximum limit. Exceptional Attribute also applies towards Special Attributes such as Magic and Resonance. Edge cannot be affected by this quality (but see Lucky). A character may only take Exceptional Attribute once.

**First Impression (Cost 11 Karma)**: The First Impression quality enables a character to slide easily into new environments, situations, groups and jobs. Whether infiltrating a gang, making contacts in a new city or wrangling an invite to a private meet, the character gains a temporary +2 dice pool bonus for relevant Social Tests such as Negotiation and Con during their first meeting. This modifier does not apply to second and subsequent encounters. This quality decreases Notoriety by 1.

**Gifted Healer (Cost 2 Karma)**: A character with the Gifted Healer quality is particularly adept at one of Stabilisation, Diagnosis or Treatment. They receive a +1 dice pool bonus whenever performing the selected test, whether by magical or mundane means.

**Good Looking and Knows It (Cost 10 Karma)**: If you’ve got it, flaunt it! Good genes, good fashion sense or a good plastic surgeon have blessed you with looks that turn heads. The good news? You can often get what you want just by virtue of that pretty face. The bad news? They won’t forget that face any time soon.

You receive +1 Notoriety. Additionally, Memory tests to remember you receive a +2 dice pool bonus. On the bright side, you can ignore 2 points of negative modifiers on any Social test.

**Guts (Cost 10 Karma)**: The character with Guts is the one most likely to stand and fight instead of freaking the hell out. Guts gives a character a +2 dice pool bonus on tests to resist fear and intimidation, including magically induced fear from spells or critter powers.

**Hawk Eye (Cost 3 Karma)**: Characters with the Hawk Eye quality have exceptionally keen natural vision. They can identify a face a block away without binoculars or spot a spent casing in a shadowy crack at five metres. Characters gain a +1 dice pool bonus to their Perception Tests and shift all Range Environmental modifiers up one category (e.g. Medium becomes Short). The quality is part of the character’s natural eyes and is not compatible with electronic vision enhancements and/or cyber- or bioware augmentations or replacements.

**High Pain Tolerance (Cost 7 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: High Pain Tolerance lets a character keep delivering the pain even if they’ve had plenty piled on their own head. A character with High Pain Tolerance can ignore one box of damage per rating point of this quality when calculating wound modifiers. This quality may not be used with the Pain Resistance adept power, pain editor bioware or damage compensator bioware.

**Honest Face (Cost 5 Karma)**: Who, me? Whether you sold bad cars to old ladies or spent a whole lot of time looking in the mirror getting ready for Friday night poker, you sure don’t look like a liar, particularly when you are lying. This doesn’t make you look innocent – just without guile. Good for selling lunar real estate. Better for convincing the interrogator you really don’t know anything else.

Whenever someone makes a Judge Intentions Test against you, you receive a +2 dice pool bonus to the opposing Charisma + Willpower Test.

**Immunity to Iocaine Powder (Cost 4 Karma)**: You have developed an immunity to the colourless, odorless and tasteless Iocaine Powder, among the world’s most deadly poisons.

**Indomitable (Cost 8 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: Bodies and minds have limits, but some people have the will to push right through those boundaries. For each level of Indomitable, a character receives a +1 increase to an Inherent limit of their choice (Mental, Physical or Social).

**Innocuous (Cost 5 Karma)**: Sure, a guy can be bland and unmemorable, but it’s something else altogether to disappear into a crowd. You know how to dress mundane, slouch your shoulders, pull your hat low and turn the right corner. You can vanish into the masses, hiding in plain sight or approach your prey with the herd. You gain a +2 dice pool bonus to Sneaking Tests to hide in a crowd.

**Lightning Reflexes (Cost 20 Karma)**: Some people are just born fast. This quality provides an unaugmented character the ability to react with astonishing speed. The character gains +1 to their Initiative rating and a bonus initiative die. They also receive a +1 dice pool bonus for all Defence Tests. This quality is not cumulative with any other Initiative enhancement, be it technological, chemical or magical.

**Lucky (Cost 12 Karma)**: The dice roll and the coin flips your character’s way more often than not, giving them the chance to drop jaws in amazement at their good fortune. Lucky allows a character to possess an Edge attribute one point higher than his metatype maximum. This quality may only be taken once. This quality decreases Notoriety by 1.

**Mentor Spirit (Cost 5 Karma)**: Everyone needs some help in life, even if it comes from someone relatively filmy and insubstantial. Mentor Spirit means the character follows a patron spirit that guides them in their practice of magic and provides certain advantages and disadvantages to their natural abilities. Each tradition has a different name for a mentor spirit. Hermetic mages prefer the term “mentor spirit”, while shamans use the word “totem” for the spirit that they follow. While the names may vary, the way the mentor works is consistent. This quality is only available to characters that possess a Magic attribute rating.

**Natural Athlete (Cost 7 Karma)**: A character with this quality has an innate combination of physical fitness, spatial awareness and natural athletic or gymnastic talent. While they may not be a world-class athlete and may require training to achieve peak performance, they are in prime physical shape for their size and weight class. Add a +2 dice pool bonus for Running and Acrobatics skill tests.

**Natural Hardening (Cost 10 Karma)**: This quality makes the character’s neural structure resistant to feedback. This give them 1 point of natural biofeedback filtering, which is cumulative with a Biofeedback Filter program or a technomancer’s firewall.

**Linked with the Matrix (Cost 8 Karma)**: The character’s living persona can act as a master device of a PAN, with a maximum number of slaves equal to their Resonance Rating x3.

**Perceptive. (Cost 5/10 Karma)**: The devil is in the details and you see those horns regularly. This quality is available at two levels. For 5 Karma, characters receive a +1 dice pool modifier on all Perception Tests, including Astral and Matrix Perception. For 10 Karma, the modifier increases to +2.

**Photographic Memory (Cost 6 Karma)**: A character with this quality can often instantly recall facts, dates, numbers or anything else they have seen or heard. The character gains a +2 dice pool bonus to all Memory tests.

**Prototype Transhuman (Cost 10 Karma)**: You are an extremely rare, genetically crafted experimental post-human prototype. Unfortunately, this has its ups and downs. You were built better than a normal human, so you may pick up to 1 point of Essence of bioware (not cyberware). While you must pay the normal cost in nuyen for the bioware and otherwise follow all character creation rules, you do not incur *any* essence cost. So, essentially, you gain up to 1 point of free Essence to be used exclusively on bioware. These special organs were genetically grown into you from your inception – they are as much a natural part of you are your liver or heart.

However, the downside of being a rare, one-of-a-kind transhuman prototype is that, well, something is wrong with you. As part of this Quality, you *must* also pick one of the following negative qualities: Astral Beacon, Insomnia or Wanted. **You do not get the Karma bonus for this Negative Quality**. This quality can only be taken during character creation.

**Quick Healer (Cost 3 Karma)**: A character with the Quick Healer quality receives a +2 dice pool bonus to all Healing Tests made on them, including tests they make themselves and magical healing.

**Redliner (Cost 10 Karma)**: Any cyberlimbs you have installed are jacked-to-the-max, with safety limits disabled and performance overclocked beyond what the warranty normally covers, and that’s the way you like it. You receive +1 Strength and +1 Agility for every two full cyberarms or cyberlegs installed, up to a maximum of +2 for both attributes (sorry, no super centipede-man builds). The downside to pushing your ‘ware that hard, however, is that the strain is quite damaging. You lose three Physical Condition Monitor boxes per two full cyberarms and legs installed. Normally, every cyberlimb gives you one additional box, but with this quality, after two full limbs you end up with net one less box (i.e., -1 instead of +2).

**Resistance to Pathogens (Cost 4 Karma)**: A character with Resistance to Pathogens can fight off diseases more easily than other characters and receives a +1 dice pool bonus to those Resistance Tests. This quality stacks with the dwarf resistance to toxins and pathogens.

**Resistance to Toxins (Cost 4 Karma)**: A character with Resistance to Toxins can fight off toxins and drugs more easily than other characters and receives a +1 dice pool bonus to those Resistance Tests. This quality stacks with the dwarf resistance to toxins and pathogens.

**Resistance to Toxins and Pathogens (Cost 8 Karma)**: A character with this quality can fight off diseases, toxins and drugs more easily than other characters and receives a +1 dice pool bonus to those Resistance Tests. This quality stacks with the dwarf resistance to toxins and pathogens.

**Restricted Gear (Cost 10 Karma)**: Right place, right time, right friend or the stars aligned. No matter the reason, the character has managed to acquire or get a line on one piece of really hard-to-find gear they absolutely had to have. A character may start the game with one piece of gear usually unavailable at character creation. They do, however, have to pay any extra thirty percent for the item.

**School of Hard Knocks (Cost 4 Karma)**: The streets were this character’s classroom. Thanks to all the time spent trying to stay one step ahead oof the next guy, and knowing that knowledge is power on the streets, the character can buy Street Knowledge skills at half price (rounded up) during character creation. After character creation, Street Knowledge skill ranks of 3 or higher receive a 1 Karma cost reduction for each rank.

**Shoot First, Don’t Ask Questions (Cost 3 Karma)**: Your lifestyle doesn’t always you the luxury of checking all the facts before diving right in. As a result, you’ve honed your reflexes in order to survive and no longer allow yourself to think before you shoot; you just go for the kill.

Whenever you succeed at a Surprise Test, increase your initiative score by the number of total hits rolled on the test. This bonus only applies to the first turn of combat. If additional Surprise Tests occur later in combat, the bonus will trigger based on this new Surprise Test, on the next turn after that Surprise Test. This quality also reduces the threshold for quick drawing a weapon by 1.

**Speed Demon (Cost 3 Karma)**: Pushing your vehicle to its limits makes the hair on the back of your neck stand up, but in a good way. You feel alive, alert and ready to do anything. This increased intensity gives you a +1 dice pool bonus to Pilot Tests for a vehicle that is moving at a speed of 3 or higher (4 for aircraft). Note that your character must either be directly in the vehicle they are piloting or jacked in; the bonus does not apply to vehicles that are simply being piloted remotely.

**Spike Resistance (Cost 10 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: Characters with this quality have an inherent resistance to harmful forms of biofeedback such as black IC, dump shock, black hammer, etc. For every rating (up to three), the character gains a +1 dice pool bonus to resist damage from harmful biofeedback.

**Spirit Affinity (Cost 7 Karma)**: Available only to magic users, the Spirit Affinity quality allows a character to be attuned to one type of spirit. These spirits find the character interesting, are drawn to them and are more inclined to assist them. They may be reluctant to attack the character and if forced to do so they are likely to use nonlethal power. Watchers and minions to not count for this quality as they are constructed and are not summoned like normal spirits. Spirit Affinity provides magicians with 1 additional spirit service for each spirit of that type and it also provides a +1 dice pool modifier for Binding Tests.

> Magic users may possess this quality for a type of spirit that is not part of their magical tradition.

**Technical School Education (Cost 4 Karma)**: All your schoolbooks focus on the practical and real-life working world. Thanks to time spent being formally educated in a technical school, the character can buy Professional Knowledge skills at half price (rounded up) during character creation. After character creation, Professional Knowledge skill ranks of 3 or higher receive a 1 Karma cost reduction for each rank.

**Too Pretty to Hit (Cost 3 Karma)**: It’s more about force of personality than actually being pretty – sometimes a character just has a presence about them that keeps people from shooting straight. The character can use their Charisma attribute instead of their Willpower attribute while using Full Defence.

**Tough as Nails (Cost 5 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: “Hit me!” is your favourite phrase. Each rating provides one additional box to either the character’s Physical or Stun Condition monitor. This quality can be taken up to 3 times for Physical and 3 times for Stun.

**Toughness (Cost 9 Karma)**: Characters with the Toughness quality shrug off damage more easily than others. Such characters gain a +1 dice pool bonus to their Body when making Damage Resistance tests.

**Uncanny Healer (Cost 12 Karma)**: This character has always been a fast healer, recovering from injuries with almost supernatural speed. Characters who embrace augmentation soon discover that it interferes with their unnatural healing ability. The character adds their current Essence attribute as a dice pool modifier to all Natural Recovery Healing Tests for both Stun and Physical damage. This does not affect magical healing or First Aid tests performed by others. This quality cannot be combined with Quick Healer.

**Watch the Suit (Cost 3 Karma)**: You paid good nuyen for a Starlight gown. There’s no way you’re going to let this clown bleed all over it. You’ve got the presence of mind and the little dextrous tricks to get in a tousle and still come out looking good. This prevents any Stun damage from marring your appearance. Physical damage will still draw blood and leave cuts, burns or worse that you can’t avoid. You never receive negative dice pool penalties to Etiquette tests for looking roughed up after a fight in which you did not take Physical damage and your appearance won’t suspicion that you were recently involved in an altercation.

**Will to Live (Cost 3 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: For each rating point in Will to Live, the character gains 1 additional Damage Overflow Box. These additional boxes only allow the character to sustain additional damage before dying; they do not raise the threshold at which the character becomes unconscious or incapacitated, nor do they affect modifiers from the damage the character has taken.

## **Negative Qualities**

**Accident Prone (Bonus 4 Karma)**: This driving thing – it may not be for you. You have a talent for steering any vehicle you control into whatever wall, tree or other vehicle may be nearby. You receive a -2 dice pool penalty on any tests involved in directing a vehicle.

**Addiction – Alcohol, Mild (Bonus 4 Karma)**: A character with this quality is hooked on alcohol. This quality increases Notoriety by 1. Addictions get worse over prolonged periods of time without treatment. A craving occurs at least every two weeks. Alcohol has an addiction rating of 3 and an addiction threshold of 2. This level may be increased if the character has augmentations. At the lower end of the spectrum, it is easier to hide the effects of this Addiction.

If a character fails their Withdrawal Test, they suffer symptoms of withdrawal and must actively seek out and consume alcohol to find relief. While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms, apply a -2 dice pool penalty to all their Physical-attribute-based tests. If the character succeeds on their Withdrawal Test, they do not suffer withdrawal symptoms and do not need alcohol until their next Withdrawal Test. They are able to stay clean for now.

**Addiction – Betel Gum, Mild (Bonus 4 Karma)**: A character with this quality is hooked on betel gum. This quality increases Notoriety by 1. Addictions get worse over prolonged periods of time without treatment. A craving occurs at least every two days. Betel Gum has an addiction rating of 1 and an addiction threshold of 2. This level may be increased if the character has augmentations. At the lower end of the spectrum, it is easier to hide the effects of this Addiction.

If a character fails their Withdrawal Test, they suffer symptoms of withdrawal and must actively seek out and chew betel gum to find relief. While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms, apply a -2 dice pool penalty to all their Mental-attribute-based tests. If the character succeeds on their Withdrawal Test, they do not suffer withdrawal symptoms and do not need betel gum until their next Withdrawal Test. They are able to stay clean for now.

**Addiction – Soykaf, Moderate (Bonus 9 Karma)**: A character with this quality is hooked on soykaf. This quality increases Notoriety by 1. Addictions get worse over prolonged periods of time without treatment. A craving occurs at least every two days. Soykaf has an addiction rating of 1 and an addiction threshold of 2. This level may be increased if the character has augmentations. At the lower end of the spectrum, it is easier to hide the effects of this Addiction.

If a character fails their Withdrawal Test, they suffer symptoms of withdrawal (nausea, the shakes and headaches) and must actively seek out and consume soykaf to find relief. While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms, apply a -4 dice pool penalty to all of the character’s Physical-attribute-based tests. If the character succeeds on their Withdrawal Test, they do not suffer withdrawal symptoms and do not need soykaf until their next Withdrawal Test. They are able to stay clean for now.

**Addiction – Gambling, Moderate (Bonus 9 Karma)**: A character with this quality is hooked on gambling. This quality increases Notoriety by 1. Addictions get worse over prolonged periods of time without treatment. A craving occurs at least every two weeks. This frequency may be increased if the character has augmentations. At the lower end of the spectrum, it is easier to hide the effects of this Addiction.

If a character fails their Withdrawal Test, they suffer symptoms of withdrawal and must actively seek out and engage in gambling to find relief. While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms (insomnia, poor concentration and depression), apply a -4 dice pool penalty to all of the character’s Mental-attribute-based tests. If the character succeeds on their Withdrawal Test, they do not suffer withdrawal symptoms and does not need the substance or to participate in that habit until their next Withdrawal Test. They are able to stay clean for now.

**Addiction – Jazz, Severe (Bonus 20 Karma)**: A character with this quality is hooked on the narcotic, jazz. This quality increases Notoriety by 1. Addictions get worse over prolonged periods of time without treatment. A craving occurs at least every two days. Jazz has an addiction rating of 8 and an addiction threshold of 3. This level may be increased if the character has augmentations. At the lower end of the spectrum, it is easier to hide the effects of this Addiction.

If a character fails their Withdrawal Test, they suffer symptoms of withdrawal and must actively seek out and use jazz to find relief. While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms, apply a -4 dice pool penalty to all of the character’s Mental-attribute-based tests and apply a -4 dice pool penalty to all of the character’s Physical-attribute-based tests. If the character succeeds on their Withdrawal Test, they do not suffer withdrawal symptoms and does not need jazz until their next Withdrawal Test. They are able to stay clean for now.

**Allergy – Adhesives (Bonus 10 Karma)**: A character with this quality is allergic to adhesives. Duct tape, glue and even band-aids and slap patches cause a strong allergic reaction. Swelling and a long-lasting rash that is discomforting and distracting is the result of skin contact with adhesives. This applies a -2 dice pool penalty to the character’s Physical Tests until healed.

**Allergy – Pollutants (Bonus 10 Karma)**: A character with this quality is allergic to common pollutants. In many places the very air causes a strong allergic reaction. Red and sore eyes, a scratchy throat and coughing as well as uncontrollable sneezing are common reactions to exposure to pollutants. This applies a -2 dice pool penalty to the character’s Physical Tests until time is spent recovering away from the polluted environments.

**Allergy – Soy (Bonus 15 Karma)**: A character with this quality is allergic to soy. After ingesting any product containing soy, they experience stomach cramps and extreme pain, sometimes coughing up blood. This applies a -4 dice pool penalty to the character’s Physical Tests until they vomit enough of it up, their stomach is pumped or it passes through their system. Skin contact with soy products will cause a rash and swelling and apply a -2 dice pool penalty to the character’s Physical Tests until healed. Furthermore, the lifestyle cost of the character is increased by 20%.

**Antipathy (Bonus 8 Karma)**: Your parents always told you to think about how others feel, but whether you want to or not, you don’t know how. You suffer a -2 dice pool penalty to all opposed Social Tests.

**Astral Beacon (Bonus 10 Karma)**: The astral signature of a character with the Astral Beacon quality is like, well, a beacon – highly visible on the astral plane. The signature also lasts twice as long as it would without the Astral Beacon quality and others assensing it receive a -1 threshold on their Assensing Test for gathering information about it. Only characters with a Magic rating may take this quality.

**Bad Luck (Bonus 12 Karma)**: The character is cursed – their own luck often turns against them. When the character uses Edge, roll 1D6. On a result of 1, the point of Edge is spent, but is has the exact opposite effect intended. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Big Regret (Bonus 5 Karma)**: Mistakes happen. Sometime in the character’s past they did something serious that they regret; maybe they spent time as a bunraku puppet, maybe they were part of a major political affair or they were involved in the wrong corporate project, but it has to be something truly unpleasant (gamesmaster’s discretion). The character decreases their Social Limit by 3 against anyone who knows about their past. This could result in a case of blackmail if the wrong person knows the truth. The character cannot buy off this quality unless it becomes public, at which point they gain 1 point of Notoriety and must buy off the quality as soon as possible.

**Code of Honour – Warrior’s Code (Bonus 15 Karma)**: The character has a binding Code of Honour; it’s a matter of unwavering principle. The character maintains a strict sense of personal honour. This means they will not kill an unarmed person, nor take lethal action against an opponent who is unaware or unprepared for an attack or knowingly take an action that could kill someone who is defenceless. The character loses Karma each time the code is broken through your actions, or decision not to act.

**Codeblock (Bonus 10 Karma)**: A character with the Codeblock quality always has trouble with a particular Matrix action. They receive a -2 dice pool modifier any time they attempt that type of Matrix action. Codeblock only applies to Matrix actions with an associated test; it does not apply to actions that do not require a test. Characters cannot apply Codeblock toward Matrix actions they are never likely to take.

**Combat Paralysis (Bonus 12 Karma)**: A character with Combat Paralysis freezes in combat; this includes astral combat and cybercombat. On the character’s first Initiative Test, the character divides their Initiative Score for that Combat Turn in half (rounded up). In subsequent Combat Turns, the character may roll their normal Initiative. Combat Paralysis also gives the character a -3 dice pool modifier on Surprise Tests. If the character must make a Composure Test (CHA + WIL) while under fire or in a similar combat situation, the gamesmaster applies a +1 threshold modifier. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Cyber-Snob (Bonus 12 Karma)**: There are augmentations and then there are augmentations, chummer. If you’re gonna stick a chunk of metal or hunk of flesh inside your body, it’s going to be nothing but the best! A character with Cyber-Snob will not accept any augmentations of a grade lower than betaware. A character must have at least 1 point worth of Essence of betaware-grade cyberware or bioware to be able to take this quality.

**Designated Omega (Bonus 5 Karma)**: It’s safer when someone else is giving the orders, isn’t it? That way, if it goes sideways, it’s not your fault. Or maybe you just don’t trust yourself to do the job right or you freeze under pressure. As long as you’re working support or moving with your designated herd, you’re just fine. If you’re put in a position where the team depends on you or you need to make a critical decision, you freeze up. You take a -2 dice pool penalty to all Leadership tests, whether initiating or resisting.

**Diabetic (Bonus 15 Karma)**: A chronic medication condition that requires daily insulin injections to manage. The character must daily succeed in a Body + Body (3) Test or their illness will flair, causing a -3 negative dice pool modifier affecting all tests. If the character keeps up with the necessary medical treatments (daily insulin injections), the threshold for this test is reduced to 1. The treatment costs 100¥/day.

**Did You Just Call Me Dumb? (Bonus 3 Karma)**: The character can’t resist camouflaging insults into well-spoken words. The character gets the satisfaction of feeling superior to everyone. Unfortunately, once in a while, people will notice and get pretty upset. Any Glitch rolled on a Social Test always counts as a Critical Glitch.

**Dimmer Bulb (Bonus 5 Karma/Rating – Max Rating 3)**: Maybe it was one too many hits to the head, maybe the character’s mother dropped them as a baby or maybe they never got into that whole “thinking” thing but whatever the cause, the character does not tend to shine in the mental arena. For every rating of this quality the character suffers a -1 dice pool penalty on all tests involving Logic or Intuition.

**Elevated Stress (Bonus 8 Karma)**: Years of having mainstream society look down on you has taken its toll, as has the long-term stress associated with it. You take a -1 dice pool penalty to any Addiction and Toxin Resistance Tests due to the strain on your health.

**Elf Poser (Bonus 6 Karma)**: The Elf Poser is a human character who wants to be an elf. They associate with elves as much as possible, talk like elves and alters their appearance to resemble an elf. Characters with this quality may undergo cosmetic surgery to get elf ears and elf eyes and they may successfully pass as elves and avoid any negative Social modifiers associated with being a non-elf.

Real elves consider Elf Posers an embarrassment, many humans think of them as sellouts and other metatypes generally consider posers to be pathetic. If an elf discovers the character’s secret, the elf is likely to treat them with contempt and hostility. An outed elf poser may also face stigma from prejudiced humans as a “race traitor”.

Only human characters may take the Elf Poser quality. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Family Curse (Bonus 5 Karma)**: Your parent(s) liked their drugs. A lot. So did theirs, and their parents before them. To say that addiction runs in the family is like saying Lone Star officers enjoy clubbing punks. When making Addiction Tests, the character receives a -2 dice pool penalty.

**Illiterate (Bonus 5 Karma)**: Though literacy is not really necessary thanks to the advances of the Sixth World, most folks can at least sound out “See Spot run”. Whether because they grew up in the wild (urban, rural or otherwise) or just never had the opportunity, the character cannot read a lick. They can ask others, use an agent program or get software on their commlink to scan and read things aloud, but anyone aware of this intellectual deficit will look negatively on the character, reducing their Social limit by 1. The illiterate character also suffers a -2 dice pool penalty when working with computer/commlink systems and electronics other than their own due to their unfamiliarity with their iconography. Also, during character creation, the character cannot choose any Knowledge skill that may have required even the most minimal of reading and during gameplay all Knowledge skills that require reading cost double the Karma for the character until they learn to read and buys off this quality.

**Incompetent (Bonus 5 Karma)**: An Incompetent character possesses a total lack of knowledge or ability with a certain Active skill group – or, perhaps worse, they have some vague knowledge of the skills contained in the group, but they have neither the coordination nor the comprehension to come anywhere close to carrying it off properly. No matter how much effort they put into this area, they simply cannot grasp it – it would take a miracle for them to somehow, someday, advance to the level of “poor” in those skills.

Incompetent may not be applied to Language or Knowledge skills. The Incompetent character is treated as having skill level of “unaware” for all skills in the skill group.

In some cases, a Success Test may be required for tasks most people take for granted. Characters may not possess that skill group for which they have the Incompetent quality. If gear grants a bonus or requires the use of a specific skill in which the character is Incompetent, the character gains no benefits from the gear.

Gamesmasters are free to reject any choices that would prove irrelevant or exploitative in actual play, such as Incompetent: Outdoors in a campaign based entirely inside an arcology. (This should go without saying, but just in case: Characters may never choose Incompetent for any skill group that they are physically incapable of using. A non-magician cannot take Incompetent in Sorcery, Conjuring or Enchanting; a non-technomancer cannot be Incompetent in a skill that requires Resonance; and so on.)

Incompetent may be purchased only once. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Insomnia (Bonus 10 Karma)**: A character with the Insomnia quality has trouble falling asleep and seldom feels well rested. Usually, this is only an annoyance. For runners, however, this can become a major problem when they are dependent on being able to rest at every opportunity to remain sharp. Insomnia can lengthen the amount of time it takes for a character to recover Stun damage.

Before a character rolls their Body + Willpower to recover Stun damage, the character rolls an Intuition + Willpower (4) Test. If the character succeeds on this test, the character is not impeded by Insomnia and the character regains Stun damage as normal. They also regain 1 point of Edge after a night of restful sleep. If the character fails, double the amount of time it normally would take for a character to recover their Stun damage. In addition, Edge is not regained after restful sleep for up to another 24 hours.

**Implant-Induced Immune Deficiency (Bonus 5 Karma)**: Cyberware and bioware users sometimes suffer from a number of health problems as the natural balance of their metabolisms is thrown off by modified organs and systems. The demands of their augmented biologies and the body’s continuous attempts to adjust to the implants can lead to decreased immunity to pathogens, poisons and other compounds. Characters with this quality suffer a dice pool modifier of -2 on all Body Tests to resist the effects of diseases, drugs, toxins and other compounds (including Physical Addiction Tests and Disease Resistance Tests). This quality is only available to characters with bioware or cyberware implants and an Essence of 5 or less.

**Lack of Focus (Bonus 6 Karma)**: Characters suffering from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder have difficulty focusing on a single subject for long. When making any Extended Test with an interval greater than five minutes and shorter than one day or if repeated simple tests are made within a period of time (such as Perception Tests during surveillance), the character must make a Composure (CHA + WIL) (3) Test each interval after the first. The character’s Composure dice pool is cumulatively reduced by 1 for each of these tests, like any other Extended Test.

Failing the Composure Test indicates the character can no longer focus and must take a break for a minimum of 1 interval, plus any other consequences that result. After the break, the character’s Composure dice pool is refreshed and the process starts over again.

**Lightweight (Bonus 6 Karma)**: On the bright side, this quality means it’s easy, and cheap, to get drunk. On the downside, it takes far less to get a person addicted to the various types of chemical drugs on the market. The Addiction Rating of any substance on the Addiction Table or any other related tables is 2 levels higher for the character.

**Low Pain Tolerance (Bonus 9 Karma)**: Characters with Low Pain Tolerance are particularly sensitive to pain; they incur a -1 wound modifier for every 2 boxes of cumulative damage, instead of the normal 3 boxes. This affects both Physical and Stun damage tracks.

**Motion Sickness (Bonus 4 Karma)**: Yes, there is a strong benefit from being able to move from place to place, but if your travelling comes with too much, well, *motion*, your stomach starts doing flip-flops. Any time you are in a vehicle that is effectively accelerating at a rate of 3 or higher or moving at a Speed of 4 or higher, you experience Nausea until the vehicle’s Speed or Acceleration drops. Once the vehicle movement drops, the Nausea disappears in (12-Body) minutes.

**No Man Left Behind (Bonus 7 Karma)**: You can’t leave a fallen comrade behind to be taken by the enemy. Whether they are dead or just knocked out, you won’t leave them to the wolves. Any time a team member falls (even one you don’t particularly like), make a Composure (CHA + WIL) (4) Test. Success means you’ve overcome this urge to save your fallen comrade (though you can still do so if you choose); failure means you needs to do everything within your power, up to and including self-sacrifice, to get your companion out of the hot zone and to safety.

**Oblivious (Bonus 6 Karma)**: The character with this quality fails to notice the troll in the corner with the Panther Cannon… even after they’ve fired it! They suffer a -2 dice pool penalty on all Perception Tests, including standard, Astral and Matrix.

**Ork Poser (Bonus 6 Karma)**: Influenced by Goblin Rock or over-hyped orxploitation trends, an Ork Poser is an elf or human character who alters their appearance to appear as an Ork. Various cosmetic biomods – tusk implants, steroids, larynx alterations, etc. – allow them to successfully pass as an ork. Ork posers are an embarrassment to many orks, but some tolerate, if not appreciate, the compliment behind the effort. This means an ork who discovers the character’s secret may either become very hostile toward them or be willing to let the character join the “family” – provided they pass an appropriate hazing ritual to prove their “orkness”. An outed ork poser may also face stigma from other humans or elves as “race traitors”, if those humans/elves harbour any prejudice against orks. Only humans and elves may take the Ork Poser quality. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Reality Impaired (Bonus 5 Karma)**: The character is so accustomed to the Matrix and AR that they have lost any sense of what is real and what is virtual. The character tends to mistake real objects for AROs, and vice-versa, resulting in quirky mannerisms such as touching people in an attempt to call up information windows, ducking to avoid AR banners or trying to delete physical objects. This bizarre behaviour results in a -1 dice pool modifier to all Social Skill Tests when in the physical world (as opposed to VR or astral space).

**Simsense Vertigo (Bonus 5 Karma)**: Characters who suffer from Simsense Vertigo experience feelings of disorientation whenever they work with augmented reality, virtual reality or simsense (including smartlinks, simrigs and image links). Such characters receive a -2 dice pool penalty to all tests when interacting with AR, VR or simsense.

**SINner [Layered] (Bonus 5 to 25 Karma)**: There are four types of SINs that fall under the SINner [Layered] quality: National SIN, Criminal SIN (either Corporate or National), Corporate Limited SIN or Corporate Born. Individuals with SINs are required by law to use active mod to display their SINs. A SIN is required for all legal purchases. This makes them very useful things to have, so those who are SINless generally get by with the use of **fake SINs** just so they can participate in society.

**National SIN (Bonus 5 Karma)**

At the 5 Karma level, the character has what is called a National SIN. The character’s parents were legal citizens of a nation (such as the UCAS or CAS) and they have the right to vote, qualify for passports issued by their nation, enlist in the national military or work in the national government. A National SIN is required for any national security clearance or any form of national military career. A character with a National SIN pays fifteen percent of their gross income in taxes. They are also in no way connected to any of the megacorporations. The main drawback to having a legal National SIN is the character is in the system. The nation in the player character’s background has the character’s biometric data (DNA, fingerprints, retinal scans) on file and that biometric data is shared with law enforcement agencies through the Global SIN Registry. This makes is much easier to track a character should a job go sideways. Also, nations typically sell the personal information tied to the character’s SIN to corporations. Those with a legal SIN get nearly three times as much spam as those who don’t have a SIN or rely on fake SINs and the spam messages they receive are disturbingly tailored to their preferences (based on their buying and browsing habits).

**Criminal SIN (Bonus 10 Karma)**

At the 10 Karma level, the character has a Criminal SIN (either Corporate or National); their Criminal SIN replaces any previous SIN. At some point in their life, the character was arrested and served time for a felony-level offence and was branded a criminal for the rest of their life. They are legally required to use active mode to display their Criminal SIN at all times; failure to do so is a felony and can lead to re-incarceration. They are shunned by law-abiding society. Law-abiding citizens will, if they must, deal with a SINless character before they’d have any interaction with a known criminal. With their Criminal SIN, the character will experience prejudiced views, suspicion and/or open hostility from most people with SINs. They will often be denied entry to certain locations (high-end stores, car dealerships, museums, galleries, etc.) and will have difficulty finding legal employment. They can expect to be brought in and held up to 48 hours for questioning any time a crime is committed in their area. The judicial system in 2075 is more an assembly line than institution of justice. Suspects are treated as guilty unless proven innocent, plausible circumstantial evidence is often sufficient for conviction and sentencing has more to do with the judge’s mood than the crime. In this environment it’s likely the cops will be more interested in closing the case than solving any crime; they may try to pin crimes on the character with the Criminal SIN whether or not they had anything to do with it. Some degree of “adjusting” facts and “interpreting” witness accounts to support allegations is common; fabricating evidence, if only to meet conviction productivity goals, is not rare. Magic users tend to receive much harsher treatment from the judicial system than mundane criminals. If the character is a magic user with a Criminal SIN, they are registered with local law enforcement. They can expect regular – but usually not scheduled – checks to confirm their address and to ensure they are not using forbidden spell formula, foci or other magical gear. The nation or corporation that issued the Criminal SIN will keep close tabs on the character. If they fail to update residential information or appear in any way to be trying to evade their oversight, they are subject to arrest. They are also required to pay a fifteen percent tax on their gross income to the entity that issued their Criminal SIN. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Corporate Limited SIN (Bonus 15 Karma)**

At the 15 Karma level, the character has the Corporate Limited SIN; they have somehow gained a position in a megacorporation from the outside. They may have been hired as a wageslave (or been the minor child of a person hired as a wageslave) or perhaps brought in by someone in the megacorp who saw advantage in their skill, talent, area of expertise or some other useful attribute. Under most circumstances, the Corporate Limited SIN replaces any National SIN. Their Corporate Limited SIN becomes part of the Global SIN Registry, to which law enforcement agencies and security corporations alike have access. Many of these Corporate Limited SINs record whether or not the character is Awakened. With the Corporate Limited SIN, the character can be gainfully employed by the issuing megacorporation as a wageslave, a low-ranking member of the corporation’s security services or an enlisted member of the corporation’s military. Though they could have a secret-level security clearance to perform their duties, they cannot rise to a leadership position, become an officer or be part of the megacorporation’s Special Forces (such as the Red Samurai). As a group, characters that possess Corporate Limited SINs are believed to either know something valuable about the inner workings of the megacorporation or have a skill set rival megacorps would want; as such they are considered valid targets for extraction, even if they are no longer active with the corporation. Characters with the Corporate Limited SIN experience prejudice and hostility from those in the shadows who are SINless. The SINless believe the corporations deliberately keep them poor and powerless so they can be exploited. The character with the Corporate Limited SIN may find themselves being personally blamed for their corporation’s actions – protesting they have no real authority and no connection with the actions in question usually does little good. To the SINless and neo-anarchists the character with the Corporate Limited SIN has sold out and chosen a corrupt and oppressive system over their own people. They character pays twenty percent of their gross income in taxes to their megacorporation.

**Corporate SIN (Bonus 25 Karma)**

At the 25 Karma level is the Corporate Born SIN. The character with this ID was probably born into a mega corporation or belonged to one when it achieved extraterritoriality. At least one of their parents probably had the Corporate Born SIN as well. They grew up in a corporation, their social involvement, education and almost every aspect of their life was managed by the corporation. Their skills and aptitudes were evaluated constantly and they were groomed for the career path to which they were best suited; their whole world was the corporation. Characters with the Corporate Born SIN had the potential and the opportunity to advance through the corporation hierarchy. They could have been a department administrator, a finance strategist, an agent of corporate intelligence, an officer in a megacorp’s military or even a member of Corporate Special Forces (Renraku’s Red Samurai or Ares’ Firewatch). With a Corporate Born SIN, they could have enjoyed top-secret clearance within the corporation and access to nearly unlimited resources. Then something happened. An unforgivably costly mistake, the machinations of a rival, a supervisor in need of a scapegoat – something pushed the character out of the corporation and into the cold and unforgiving shadows. In the shadows, a SIN that had been the key to opportunity is now a deadly liability. Most in the shadows see the Corporate Born as the privileged few, the aristocrats in the armoured limousines who look down on them, oppress them, exploit them and deny them their basic rights. If the SINless discover the character’s Corporate Born SIN, reactions will range from deep suspicion to violent hostility; serious injury and death are real possibilities. The character’s loyalty to their corporation is never questioned, which can be an insurmountable liability in a culture that works against the megacorps. Would-be runners have been killed for holding Corporate Born SINs. Fortunately, Corporate Born records are limited to the megacorporation that generated them. Files in the Global SIN Registry can confirm they have a valid SIN, but do not contain any additional information. Those with Corporate Born SINs pay a tax of ten percent of their gross income to their corporation.

**Social Appearance Anxiety (Bonus 3 Karma)**: Like the old flatvid once said, “I can afford a blemish on my character, but not on my clothes.” In the ages of style over substance, you need to look your best at all times if you’re going to compete. Problem is, you’ve come to depend on it. When you aren’t clean, coiffed and cutting, you become very aware of your own flaws, resulting in a -1 dice pool penalty to all Social rolls.

**Thrill Seeker (Bonus 4 Karma)**: It’s all about the rush. The character will always take the most dangerous and risky option in any situation if they don’t succeed at a Composure (Charisma + Willpower) (2) Test. There is a slight payoff, as the adrenaline rush provides a +1 to their Initiative Score for 5 Combat Turns (meaning that is how long the bonus lasts, not that the character gets an additional bonus each turn).

**Ugly and Doesn’t Care (Bonus 10 Karma)**: Fell out the ugly tree, blah blah, you’ve heard it all before. And you know what? You don’t care anymore! If people are going to judge you by your looks, then they can kiss your ugly ass. You’re not afraid to get a broken nose or a black eye. There’s nowhere to go but up. Reduce your attribute maximum for Charisma by 1 and your starting Charisma by 1 (to a minimum of 1).

**Uncouth (Bonus 14 Karma)**: The character with the Uncouth quality has difficulty interacting with others. They act impulsively, overreact to any perceived provocation and tend to do whatever pops into their head without considering the consequences (i.e. flipping off Mr Johnson, calling a drunk troll a “Trog” or responding to casual trash talk from a rival runner by punching them in the face). All Social Tests made by the character to resist acting improperly or impulsively receive a -2 dice pool modifier.

Additionally, the cost for learning or improving Social Skills is double for Uncouth characters (including at character creation) and they may never learn any Social skill groups. Uncouth characters are treated as “unaware” in any Social Skills that they do not possess a Rating 1 or higher. They may be required to make Success Tests for social situations that pose no difficulty for normal characters. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Uneducated (Bonus 8 Karma)**: An Uneducated character is not mentally impaired – they just never had the opportunity to learn. Whether because they are their family were isolated squatters or were SIN-less or otherwise underprivileged, they were denied access to the education system. They have only a rudimentary knowledge of reading, writing and arithmetic.

Characters with the Uneducated quality are considered “unaware” in Technical, Academic Knowledge and Professional Knowledge skills they do not possess and they may not default on skill tests for those skills. They may also be required to make Success Tests for ordinary tasks that the typical sprawl-dweller takes from granted. Additionally, the Karma cost for learning new skills or specialisations (or for improving existing ones) in these categories is doubled compared to the normal cost (including at character creation) and it’s possible the character will never learn some skill groups belonging to these categories. This quality increases Notoriety by 1.

**Wanted (Bonus 10 Karma)**: It feels good to be wanted, or maybe not. Though most runners are probably wanted for questioning in a few cases, this is something different. The character may have a bounty on their head or a contract for their death. The character will have to frequently deal with someone coming for them or finding out about the bounty and using it against them.
